Actual problem analysis (#52)
chhoumann/p7: report/sections/Chapter 1/Intro.tex

\chapter{Introduction} \label{chap:introduction}
The Haskell programming language is purely functional\cite{} and builds upon the lambda calculus model of computation \cite{}.
Unlike many other programming languages, Haskell can both be interpreted or compiled into an executable binary file.
It is a statically typed language implementing many mathematical constructs such as currying, set-builder notation, recursive definitions of both types and functions, and more.
This allows the programmer to create concise solutions that would normally be quite verbose in other programming paradigms.
Therefore, many companies such as Meta and Galois use Haskell for cryptography, avionics monitoring and spam filtering.

> Thus Haskell and other languages within the functional programming paradigm are useful tools for software engineers.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Thus, Haskell and other languages within the functional programming paradigm are useful tools for software engineers.
```

> Haskell is taught on the 1st semester of the Software Master's Degree at \aau{} in the Programming Paradigms course.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Haskell is taught in the Programming Paradigms course in the 1st semester of the Software Master's Degree at \aau{}.
```

Feedback is often slow since students must wait for teaching assistants to answer questions from many groups -- these questions are often the same, or of similar nature.
Often, students end up waiting until the time assigned for the exercise runs out, after which a solution is presented to the whole class.

This is problematic since students are sometimes unable to verify whether their solution is correct, or sometimes end up waiting so long that they do not solve the problem in the first place.

\section{Existing solutions}
In order to deal with the aforementioned problems, students use third-party learning platforms such as Codewars\cite{Codewars}, Coursera\cite{Coursera}, and Codecademy\cite{Codecademy}.
These platforms offer an alternative approach to learning programming languages and paradigms to traditional classroom teaching by offering problems the user must solve.
The feedback loop for each platform is quite different, however.

Codewars focuses on competitive programming, meaning users compete to solve problems fastest and most efficient way.

> When a user submits a solution to a problem, one or more tests are used to verify wether or not the submitted code solves the given problem. Then, if the problem is solved, the user can submit the code and be presented with what is considered by other users to be the best solution. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When a user submits a solution to a problem, one or more tests are used to verify whether or not the submitted code solves the given problem. Then, if the problem is solved, the user can submit the code and be presented with what other users consider the best solution. 
```

However, the problems do not constrain the user to use specific programming language constructs in their solution.

> Therefore the solutions with the highest ratings can include language construct that are foreign to a new programmer. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Therefore the solutions with the highest ratings can include language constructs that are foreign to a new programmer. 
```

This would certainly not be ideal in a university setting where students need to understand specific concepts for each exercise session.

Coursera offers on-demand lectures and exercises created by third parties similar to how a traditional university course might be structured.
On Coursera, there is no way to ask other people for help if a student gets stuck on an exercise.
Furthermore, feedback on exercises is given in written form by other course participants, meaning there is no way to get feedback from a professor or teachers assistant. 

Finally, while Codecademy offers instant feedback on problem solutions through tests, Codecademy has its own curriculums and thus would not be usable by a university professor. 

> It also do not offer extensive feedback on exercises solutions but instead informs the user that what might be wrong with their code. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
It also does not offer extensive feedback on exercise solutions but instead informs the user that what might be wrong with their code. 
```

> Thus, none of these platforms are suitable as a supplimentary platform to the programming paradigms course. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Thus, none of these platforms are suitable as a supplementary platform to the programming paradigms course. 
```

\section{Problem statement}

> Current platforms for learning to program are mainly split into three types: Coding exercises, video guides, online curriculum. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Current platforms for learning to program are mainly split into three types: Coding exercises, video guides, and online curriculum. 
```

> AAU could benefit from an application which has been designed specifically to the case of teaching at AAU.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
AAU could benefit from an application that has been designed specifically for the case of teaching at AAU.
```

To address the shortcomings of the current system used during exercises, an application designed to facilitate fast concrete feedback on exercises, for the students and the lecturer, could be created.
By summarizing the main problems following the switch to the new teaching approach, an initial problem statement is written.
\textbf{suggestions:}
\begin{displayquote}
How can one ensure a mutual feedback loop between students, teaching assistants and the professor during exercise sessions?
\end{displayquote} 

\begin{displayquote}
    How can an application ensure swift feedback between teacher and possibly many students during exercise sessions?
\end{displayquote} 

\section{Solution}

> To elliviate the problem defined in the problem statement, a platform has been developed.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To alleviate the problem defined in the problem statement, a platform has been developed.
```
